Add dashboard documentation (#134)
rancher/stackstate-product-docs: docs/latest/modules/en/pages/use/dashboards/dashboard-variables.adoc

= Dashboard variables
:revdate: 2025-11-24
:page-revdate: {revdate}
:description: Use variables to create dynamic dashboards.

By configuring variables for a dashboard, you can create dashboards with widgets that are more dynamic. Variables enable the reuse of a single dashboard definition for different use-cases. 

== Viewing a dashboard's variables
In the top navigation bar, use the dropdown menu next to the "Save..." button, and click "Edit dashboard variables".

// TODO STAC-22767 Add a screenshot

=== Built-in variables

> There are variables that are built-in to SUSE Observability. The names of these variables are reserved, and you cannot give your own variables the same names.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are variables that are built-in to {stackstate-product-name}. The names of these variables are reserved, and you cannot give your own variables the same names.
```

=== List variable

A list variable has possible values which are defined by the "Source" field. Each source type provides additional fields which allow you to narrow down the possible values for the variable.

|===
| Source type | Source fields

| Metric label names
| Enter zero or more series selectors to refine which metric label names are present.

| Metric label values
| Enter a metric label name, and zero or more series selectors to refine which metric label values are present.

| Metric PromQL
| Enter a custom PromQL query, and a label name. The resulting possible values are the values for the given label name.

| Static list
| Enter one or more label and value pairs to construct a static list of possible values.
|===

As you change the source type and their related fields, the preview on the right-hand-side of the drawer will update with the new possible values.

==== Common list variable settings

All list variable sources also have the following common settings:

|===
| Field name | Description

| Sort
| Sort the values in the list. For example, alphabetically or numerically.

| Allow multiple values
| Allow users to select more than one value at a time.

> | Enable "Include Everything" option

Reviewer 2: For both the `multiple` and the `everything`  option we need to document that it produces a regex during interpolation so it should be used with the Promql regex matcher: `=~`.

| Adds an option to the list to select all values. You can specify a custom value for this option, or let it be automatically generated.
|===

== Using variables [[using-variables]]
Once a variable is defined, it can be used to populate various fields in the dashboard:

* Other variables
* Widget queries, links
* TODO STAC-22767 - list other places?

> To use a variable in a compatible field, use the variable name preceded by a `$` (for example, `$my_variable`). The value of the variable is interpolated.

Reviewer 2: I think it would help to also show a screenshot for a widget where a variable like `cluster` (at least a meaningful variable, ideally the one that is used in the previous screenshot) is used in the Promql query.
